How do you feel about doing things that you do well?
Have you ever noticed that people who are experts at what they do seem to enjoy the job,
whatever it is, and they delight in training others?
This is because the more people there are who understand how to support a project, make
music, or play a game, the more enjoyable it is when we combine forces as a group, a
team, an orchestra.
There's a direct correlation between skill and joy.
So how do you feel about the work of making disciples?
Turn with me please to Luke chapter 10.
Jesus loved making disciples.
Psalm 40 and verse 8 says prophetically concerning Jesus to do your will, oh my God, is my delight.
And notice here that Luke 10 21 tells us that when Jesus was contemplating the results
of a particular preaching campaign, he became overjoyed, overjoyed in the Holy Spirit.
Jesus was a masterful teacher, but as this chapter of the Bible shows, he helped his
disciples to become skillful as well.
And thus as pointed out at Luke 10 17, they also found joy in this work.
Our joy grows as we work to improve our skills.
So this symposium will discuss six essential skills that can help us to become not just
more effective preachers, but effective disciple makers.
What skills are required?
To see them listed on your program, asking questions, unleashing the power of God's
word, illustrating key points, teaching with enthusiasm, showing empathy, and reaching
the heart.
This symposium includes a series of dramatizations that follow the progress of one Bible student.
After each video we'll discuss the skill that was featured and how we can use it.
This will help us to experience more joy in our disciple making work.
Are you ready?
Let's discuss our first skill.
Asking questions, why should we ask questions?
Questions serve a number of purposes.
Sometimes we pose them just to stimulate interest and to get the conversation rolling.
At other times we're interested in hearing how a person thinks so that we can know better
how to direct the conversation.
Return with me, please, to Matthew chapter 22.
Jesus knew what was in man.
He could read hearts, so he didn't need people to tell him where they stood on certain
issues.
Still, he used questions to encourage his listeners to reason things out for themselves.
Notice how he did that here in Matthew chapter 22 verses 41 through 45.
Now while the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus asked them.
What do you think about the Christ?
Whose son is he?
They said to him, David's.
He asked them, how is it then that David under inspiration calls him Lord, saying, Jehovah
said to my Lord, sit at my right hand until I put your enemies beneath your feet.
If then David calls him Lord, how is he his son?
Four questions.
Now, wouldn't it have been easier, quicker, just to tell people the answers?
Possibly.
But those questions led honest-hearted ones to draw accurate conclusions for themselves,
while at the same time revealing the true motives of opposers.
Are powerful.
But when we use them, we should keep in mind the words of James 119.
Notice what this says, James 119.
Know this, my beloved brothers.
Everyone must be quick to listen.
Slow to speak.
Slow to anger.
To ask a question without waiting for the answer would be like making an appointment to
meet a friend, but then leaving before he arrived.
It was our question, so we should wait for the answer, wait for it, not in a way that
makes people feel uncomfortable, but by listening kindly.
By listening, we, in effect, say, you are important to me.
Now, unlike Jesus, we don't already know what's going on inside of people, so it's not
until they answer our question that we can tailor our comments to fit their situation.
In the following dramatization, notice how a disciple-maker uses questions skillfully.
No, like I'm jaded.
Are you going to share something or what?
Um, yeah.
Did you know the Bible says you can live forever?
Heaven, that's what you're sharing.
That's not exactly new, is it?
No, I mean, did you know the Bible says you can live forever on earth?
But why would I want that?
This place is a mess.
But it won't be in the future.
Revelation 21 verse 4 promises.
And tea will wipe out every tear from their eyes, and death will be no more.
Neither will morning nor outcry, nor pain be any more.
The former things have passed away.
Since there's no death or pain in heaven, where would this promise apply?
I didn't know the Bible said that.
Wicked.
I mean, that's cool.
Oh, okay.
Would you like to learn how to be part of that future?
Uh, yeah.
Um, thanks.
I'm not really the chatty type.
And I'm late, so see you later.
Did you notice how Nita prefaced some of her questions?
Did you know?
Did you know the Bible says you can live forever?
No, I mean, did you know the Bible says you can live forever on earth?
A thought-provoking question to get the conversation started.
Now, maybe it's been a little while since you were able to stand in a public place with a
witnessing card as we saw Nita doing here.
But we can have conversations on the phone, perhaps in stores, in the park.
Questions also work well in letters.
Of course, it's easy for us to think of questions on topics that interest us.
But what is needed is to think of questions that others will enjoy answering.
Such questions as, did you know that the Bible describes a time when sickness will be no more?
Do you think we'll ever see true economic security?
It would be nice to be able to plan.
What do you think is a reliable source of information about the future?
Do you think we could be living in what the Bible calls the last days?
I've noticed that many people still pray, especially when they have problems.
Do you think anyone listens to prayers?
Does God listen to all prayers?
Viewpoint questions.
Viewpoint questions invite people to express their thoughts.
Often, Jesus would pause, ask people what they thought,
and then listen to their response.
For example, after the death of Martha's brother Lazarus, Jesus told her as recorded in John chapter 11 verses 25 and 26.
Everyone who was living and exercises faith in me will never die at all.
But then he asked her,
Do you believe this?
And then he listened, as she expressed her faith.
This type of question can be very effective in our disciple-making work.
Or, like Jesus, we can use a series of questions to help people reason.
In the video, did you notice how after reading Revelation 214,
Nita asked Jade,
Since there's no death or pain in heaven, where would this promise apply?
And then she asked,
Would you like to learn how to be a part of that future?
We improve our skills by imitating Jesus.
And as our skill improves, our joy increases.
Jesus delighted to make disciples and we can too.
By asking questions and then listening to people's answers,
we may help some of them to accept the good news.
And we will definitely experience first hand the joy of disciple-making.
Brother Patrick LaFranca, a helper to the personnel committee,
will now present the next part of this symposium,
Experience the joy of disciple-making, improve your skills,
Unleashing the power of God's Word.